# Lab5

For this Lab, we used folium to map starfunks locations in LA. The starfunks location data was presented in comma seperated value format and the shape boundaries of LA zip codes and LA county were geojson files. Two maps were made to illustrate the issue with the "Modifiable Areal Unit Problem" or MAUP. Instead of creating a cloropleth map showing the number of starfunks in each zipcode, the map of point locations of starfunks is a much better representation of the distribution of starfunks in LA county. As a bonus, a good example of a cloropleth map was created using boundaries that make sense in the given context and with values that are more representative of the situation in each zone. This cloropleth map of unemployment rates symbolizes different states based on the rates of unemployment rather than the absolute number of unemployed individuals. In this example, states are the boundaries that make the most sense for this analysis because each state has uniques laws related to unemployment. Furthemore using rates instead of absolute numbers of individuals normalizes the results and allows the viewer to compare rates across states. 

In this lab, I learned how to import the necessary libraries and plugins to create web maps using folium. I learned how to use pandas to group items in a dataframe by a value in a column and assign the count as a value. I also learned how to create empty dataframes, add columns to them, and populate them with the index and values of items in the grouped dataframe. I learned how to initialize a map, add layers and then display the map. Finally, I learned how to do all this with data on my local drive and also using the url of a github to access the data. 
